docs: rewrite local development section (#931)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/actors/development/quick_start/start_locally.md

---
title: Local development
sidebar_position: 1
description: Create your first Actor locally on your machine, deploy it to the Apify platform, and run it in the cloud.
slug: /actors/development/quick-start/locally
---

**Create your first Actor locally on your machine, deploy it to the Apify platform, and run it in the cloud.**

---

:::info Prerequisites

You need to have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) version 16 or higher with NPM installed on your computer.

:::

## Install Apify CLI

### MacOS/Linux

You can install the Apify CLI via the [Homebrew package manager](https://brew.sh/).

```bash
brew install apify-cli
```

### Other platforms

Use [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) to install the Apify CLI.

```bash
npm -g install apify-cli
```

Visit [Apify CLI documentation](https://docs.apify.com/cli/) for more information regarding installation and advanced usage.

## Create your Actor

To create a new Actor, use the following command:

```bash
apify create
```

The CLI will prompt you to:

> 1. _Name your Actor_: Enter a descriptive name for your actor, such as `my-actor`

Reviewer: > Enter a descriptive name for your actor, such as `my-actor`

The `my-actor` is not very descriptive 😄 maybe we can come with with something a bit better?

1. _Choose a programming language_: Select the language you want to use for your Actor. (JavaScript, TypeScript, or Python)
1. _Select a development template_: Choose a template from the list of available options.

After selecting the template, the CLI will:

- Create a `my-actor` directory with the boilerplate code.
- Install all project dependencies

![Creation](./images/actor-create.gif)

Navigate to the newly created Actor directory:

```bash
cd my-actor
```

## Explore the source code in your editor

After creating your Actor, explore the source code in your preferred code editor, We'll use the `PuppeteerCrawler in JavaScript` template code as an example, but all Actor templates follow a similar organizational pattern. The important directories and filer are:

### `src` Directory

- `srx/main.js`: This file contains the actual code of your Actor

### `actor` Directory

> - `actor/json`: This file diefines the Actor's configuration, such as input and output specifications.
> - `Dockerfile`: This file contains instructions for building the Docker image for your Actor.

Reviewer: How about improving the linking here too? (I hard-coded the links there for review purposes)

```suggestion
- `[actor/json](https://docs.apify.com/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/actor-json)`: This file defines the Actor's configuration, such as input and output specifications.
- `[Dockerfile](https://docs.apify.com/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/dockerfile)`: This file contains instructions for building the Docker image for your Actor.
```

BTW, I noticed there is a typo (`diefines` - `defines`). How is it possible that it wasn't picked up by a spell-check extension? 👀

Author: good catch, let me investigate around in Vale and my own setup.
